veganism is for everyone it's not just
for elite athletes it's not just for
intellectuals it's not just for people
who get a PhD in nutritional science the
barrier to entry is really really low
and there are some incredibly stupid
people who become vegans that's a good
thing the movement would have no future
if it were only for refined
intellectuals it would have no future if
it were only suitable for research
scientists who are devoting themselves
to keeping up with the latest academic
literature or latest findings about
protein and enzymes what have you and it
would have no future if it were limited
to elite athletes and bodybuilders okay
veganism is for everyone and that means
you and you and you and it means the
stupidest people among us it means
people who are struggling with mental
health issues and this book and the
philosophical insights that are required
to really understand veganism ethically
and ecologically each child is capable
of coming to those conclusions a very
stupid person can figure it out just in
a few minutes or a few hours of talking
back and forth all right there are some
philosophical conclusions like there are
some areas of philosophy that remain
perpetually inconclusive that remain
forever open to debate where there's
more than one equally valid perspective
or conclusion you can come to and
veganism is not like that I would really
compare veganism to something as simple
and fundamental and inexorable and
inevitable as making pedophilia illegal
okay I have had debates with people in
real life who disagree with me on that
and I made a video recently on YouTube
drawing attention to the fact that there
really was this kind of fad on the left
wing that there were left-wing
philosophers and famous published
authors people like Simone de Beauvoir
people like John Paul Sartre
there were famous left-wing people who
were Pro pedophilia you can check out
that video it's mind-blowing it's hard
to believe that really happened but it
did it's real part of the history of
left-wing politics the negative lousy
and the fact they were so wrong about
that issue it really shows that you
can't trust their judgment on any issue
whatsoever because I genuinely think the
correct conclusion ie the conclusion
that pedophilia must be illegal even if
you start off with some total lack of
knowledge total lack of thought as to
the real-world consequences of
ramifications any two people can sit and
talk that through and whether it's in a
few minutes or a few hours or over a few
days there is only one correct
conclusion you can possibly come to
there really isn't like a whole range of
equally valid perspectives on that issue
so the fact that many of these
influential philosophers and political
leaders in the far left the fact that
they were like you know in this strange
detached rational way pro pedophilia
that utterly discredits them it calls
into question their ability to reason
through anything else now the fact that
those people also supported Joseph
Stalin the value those people made
excuses for mass murder the fact that
they said what they said about a whole
range of issues and look what that also
should call it the question to what
extent they are they're sane or insane
but when we're talking about the
fundamental questions of veganism we are
talking about something that simple and
for that reason no matter how stupid you
think John Venus is his stupidity is
really irrelevant to the question we're
asking here because you don't need any
intelligence to come to the great
conclusion we use this term
cherry-picking a lot in 21st century
English it's often frustrating and
difficult to explain to a friend or a
colleague who speaks English as their
second language what it is we really
mean about cherry-picking the term is
somewhat
overused and the problem with people
like John Venus is not truly
cherry-picking it's monomania
cherry-picking properly speaking is when
someone reads the whole Bible and then
they just select certain passages from
the Bible that favor their own
philosophy fever their own perspective
on life that reinforce their own
worldview they're ignoring some passages
of the Bible and selecting others like
someone goes to a cherry tree and only
chooses the cherries they want and they
may even deny that those passages the
hundreds so for example the debate on
slavery there were people who were
pro-slavery and there were people were
anti-slavery and they read the same
Bible and they were picking different
that's that's cherry-picking
monomania John Venus may point out that
vitamin b12 is lacking in a vegan diet
now I actually have my own perspective
on that I actually very much disagree
with that with that point he's making
there was a study done in Israel where
they looked at every ethnic group in
Israel that includes people who are
ethnically and culturally Iraqi people
who are ethnically and culturally
Egyptian like you might think all
Israelis have a lot in common but in
terms of their diet and nutrition people
who were born and raised in Russia and
then migrated Israel don't have a lot in
common with people were born and raised
in Iraq and migrated Israel there are
people with very different diets they
looked at all these segments the
populations they were assuming they
would find very different problems with
b12 with B vitamin deficiencies and know
everyone had p12 deficiencies and had
nothing to do with veganism so like
guess what there were really high light
rates of b12 divisions among all these
people who eat all kinds of different
meat on all kinds of different it's
actually a problem for everyone on
planet Earth there was another study
real well-funded government research
study in Venezuela they had a certain
hypothesis about who would and
wouldn't have problems with b12
deficiency in Venezuela and guess what
everyone had problems with b12 urgency
it wasn't just the rich it wasn't just
the poor it wasn't just the people who
lived on the coast and ate more fish and
the people who lived away from the coast
and ate more chicken and pork um with
her these none of these people were
vegan they're eatin all kinds of
different diets and they all are
struggling with Beto so b12 deficiency
is a problem for human beings on planet
Earth is it especially a problem for
vegans in mind in my opinion having
looked at scientific research not really
it's such an endemic widespread problem
everyone needs to be supplementing their
diet with b12 and it may well be that in
the future processed foods have more and
more b12 added to them the same way we
add iodine to salt to ensure that people
are getting exposed there have been
serious proposals in Europe to add b12
to toothpaste so that you're getting
small amounts of b12 every time you
brush your teeth because it can enter
regardless someone like John Venus will
develop monomania
for a single issue you'll fixate on a
single factor like the vegan diet lacks
b12 even if that were true even if this
were some crucial unique problem with
the vegan diet is that there's no b12
minute does that mean that eating beef
and pork doesn't cause heart attacks
does that make all of the other health
concerns about a diet that includes beef
and pork and chicken and cheese and milk
does that mean that none of the matter
anymore you see it's not cherry-picking
it's not that he's picking out a few
facts here and there that favor his view
of the world and we're all reading the
same studies and picking no it's that he
fixates on one point one fact one fact
or one issue and then utterly ignores
everything else and it is a mania now
I've had a number of positive
discussions with another youtuber savvy
Menka
she now use the name savanah Stanhope
but if you're vegan you might remember
her as 17 she and I were friends way
back in the day like four or five years
ago and then we didn't talk for a while
and now we're talking now and I really
give credit to where she's responded
very warmly and appreciatively to the
criticism of sure with her because I'm
vegan
and she's ex vegan alright are there
benefits to eating meat the problem is
not the benefit or the lack of benefit
the problem is this attitude of
monomania in relation to the benefits
the problem is looking at that benefit
and then ignoring all of the other facts
and factors to the contrary what do you
get when you eat meat you get a ton of
protein you get a ton of salt you get a
ton of fat with zero fiber now for most
people
zero fiber is a bad thing you've
probably heard this most doctors are
saying you should be eating tons of
fiber all the time okay fiber isn't easy
to digest there are people with really
serious digestive problems serious
ailments whether that's Crohn's disease
or whether that's you know something
else a V I'm not sure exactly what
condition she is she has serious
digestive issues including celiac
disease there are people for whom it
feels good subjectively for whom it
feels like a relief to be able to get a
ton of protein a ton of fat out of the
salt that helps but anyway and to get
that with no fiber in this firm that is
in in terms of how it feels easy to
digest your body doesn't struggle with
breaking down the fiber or and that
disperses your belly and look I got I'm
cursed with a very accurate memory I
remember what it was like to eat beef I
remember what it's like to digest it and
so and so forth right so there is a kind
of perceived benefit there and if you
have certain digestive problems you may
perceive it more and if you're used to
eating a vegan diet that has an
incredibly high level of 5
suddenly reducing that fibrin intake can
definitely feel like a relief in your
digester all right I can I can recognize
this or I can also recognize that there
are sources of b12 that meat-eaters have
that vegans don't have b12 deficiency is
still endemic to Planet Earth still
what's working the problem is the
monomania of fixing on these advantages
you may derive whether they be
objectively real or not like it may just
be subjective it may just be a feeling
may just make you feel good when you eat
this meat and you get a ton of fat and a
ton of protein in this zero fibers or
okay do you think that one fact or that
one factor even if we accept it as a
fact do you think that that means that
the mountain of evidence about heart
attacks about strokes about the effects
of cholesterol not just on the
circulation of blood in your body but
the effects of cholesterol on the
circulation of blood in your brain do
you think that all of that means nothing
now do you think that nothing else
matters now that you've found this one
factoid whether that's about b12 or
whether that's about how your condition
that may be Crohn's colitis or maybe
just missile miscellaneous digestive
problems the fact that your digestive
problem was feel better when you switch
to eating meat when you switch to eating
eggs do you think that means that
there's a mountain of evidence about
nutrition and health science suddenly
doesn't matter that it suddenly means
nothing
that is monomania that's an obsession
with this one thing that's leading you
to disregard all else and the other side
of that coin obviously has to do with
ethics the fact that you may feel you
have this benefit this benefit whether
it's perceived or real from eating meat
does that mean that you have no
responsibility for the pollution of
lakes rivers and oceans
it's that mean you have no
responsibility for the suffering you're
on animals and if so what does that tell
us about you the choice of eating a
vegan diet something a child can
understand it's not terribly deep it's
not terribly profound as I said at the
beginning this video but the real choice
is what kind of person do you want to be
I'm asking you I'm inviting you to be
the kind of person who takes
responsibility for the consequences of
your actions who takes responsibility
for things that happen far away from
what you can see and feel and smell
yourself because I know how easy it is
to go to the grocery store and buy a
blob of red meat and it's it's not it's
not even bloody there's no skin on it
there's no fur on it
you don't hear screams you don't smell
what goes on at the spot Epis right I
know I know how easy our society makes
it it's very different from when I was
living in Laos and Cambodia and you saw
the pig bleeding to death and you heard
it screams and you you literally could
see the blood flowing down to the river
and polluting the river and and you saw
the animals with cows and so on pooing
in the river how raising herds of cattle
was directly polluting the source of
water that you had to drink and bathe in
okay all that is out of sight and out of
mind but if there are two types of
people in this world they're the people
who care about the consequences of their
actions and there are the people who
don't I'm not just asking you to choose
a vegan diet I'm asking you to choose
what kind of person you want to be